Salary Prediction Model

Overview

This project is a machine learning model developed in Jupyter Notebook to predict salary expectations based on various factors such as experience, education level, job role, and industry. The model leverages data preprocessing, feature engineering, and machine learning algorithms to provide accurate salary estimates.

Dataset

The dataset used for training the model includes the following features:

Years of Experience

Education Level (Bachelor's, Master's, PhD, etc.)

Job Role (Data Analyst, Software Engineer, etc.)

Industry (Tech, Finance, Healthcare, etc.)

Location

Other relevant features affecting salary expectations

Installation & Setup

To run this project, ensure you have Python installed along with the required libraries. Install the dependencies using:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Model Development

The salary prediction model follows these key steps:

Data Preprocessing: Handling missing values, encoding categorical features, and feature scaling.

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA): Visualizing relationships between features and salary.

Feature Engineering: Creating meaningful features to enhance model performance.

Model Selection: Comparing different machine learning algorithms such as Linear Regression, Random Forest, and Gradient Boosting.

Model Evaluation: Using performance metrics like RMSE, R-squared, and MAE to assess accuracy.

Usage

To use the salary prediction model:

Open the Jupyter Notebook.

Run each cell in sequence to preprocess data, train the model, and make predictions.

Modify input values in the prediction section to estimate salaries.

Results

The model has been evaluated on test data, showing reasonable accuracy in predicting salary expectations. Further improvements can be made by fine-tuning hyperparameters and incorporating additional features.

Future Enhancements

Integration with real-time salary datasets.

Deployment as a web application using Flask or FastAPI.

Experimenting with deep learning models for better predictions.

Author

Karthik

License

This project is open-source and available under the MIT License.
